What is Isomorphic/Universal JavaScript ?
There is a push to change the word Isomorphic to Universal. Whatever floats your boat!
See full post on ReactJS News
Shared JavaScript that runs on both the client & server.
What's the point?
JavaScript driven MVCs (angular, ember, backbone, etc.) render on DOM load, this can be really slowwwww & can make for a bad user experience.
Another major problem is that they aren't indexable by search engines (without paying $$ for a third party service like If your app is serving any kind of data that people might be searching for, this is a bad thing.
When you render JavaScript on the server side you can solve these problems and be super cool while doing so!
Isomorphic Javascript Benefits:
Better overall user experience
Search engine indexable
Easier code maintenance
Free progressive enhancements
I've built a live example of isomorphic JS for you to check out here:
The demo uses the griddle react component to show how you can have apps with large data sets indexed by search engines and thus easier to find by potential users in search engines.
Tutorial & Video!
In /server.js install the jsx transpiler:
Then change components to Node friendly syntax where you module.exports the component if it's in a seperate file
Also make sure to React.createFactory your component for it to be rendered server side
Now the magic happens with routes using React.renderToString inside /app/routes/coreRoutes.js:
The reactOutput variable is then passed into the template:
Notes:
Because the files are .js and not .jsx, the React.createFactory has to be used when including components. See why here:
Demo Install Instructions
If you would like to download the code and try it for yourself:
Clone the repo: :DavidWells/isomorphic-react-example.git
Install packages: npm install
Launch: node server.js
Visit in your browser at:
To see serverside rendering, comment out main.js from the /views/index.ejs file. This will show what is rendered purely from the server side.
Build changes with gulp
Other Isomorphic Tutorials & Resources
Server-Client with React
Server/Client With React, Part 1: Getting Started
Server/Client With React, Part 2: The Build System
Server/Client With React, Part 3: Frontend Server
Server Side rendering
Server Side Rendering for ReactJS
React Server Rendering
JDK8 + Facebook React: Rendering single page apps on the server
Server-side React with PHP – part 1
Server-side React with PHP – part 2
Server-rendered React components in Rails
New to React? Check out these tutorials
ReactJS For Stupid People
Flux For Stupid People