🌐 Website | 📹 Demo Video
API Hosted On
stackoverflow-clone-api.onrender.com (Primary)
stackoverflow-clone-backend.herokuapp.com
As the name suggests, this project is a clone of a famous Q/A website for professional and enthusiast programmers built solely by me using a completely different stack.
This repo consists of the Frontend code of the project, the backend code is in Stackoverflow-Clone-Backend
My Tech Stack (MERN)
Front-end
Front-end Framework: React.js (with Redux)
Styling: SASS and BOOTSTRAP
Back-end
For handling index requests: Node.js with Express.js Framework
As Database: MySQL with Sequelize
API tested using: POSTMAN
Guidelines to setup
There are two ways to setup the project: manually or using the Dockerfile. Read below for more details:
Manual Setup
Open your local CLI -
Setup the backend code -
NOTE: For Frontend Developers, if they dont want to setup the Backend Code, they can skip the Step 2, and make sure they follow the optional step mentioned in Step 4
Create a .env file and the format should be as given in .env.example.
Clone the code & install the modules-
Open your MySQL Client -
NOTE: Don't forget to keep the database name same in the .env and here.
Run the index npm start.
Open a new CLI terminal and goto the root Stackoverflow-Clone folder you created in the first step.
Setup the Frontend code -
Clone the code & install the modules-
Run the client index npm start.
OPTIONAL (Recommended For Frontend Developers): Can just change the path here to this
Now, it will hit PROD
Let me know if you are interested and would want me to assign it to you
Docker Setup
The back-end has support for Docker. So if you want to run the back-end in a container, you need do:
Setup environment variables in .env file. Note when you use Docker setup and run the database in localhost (host machine), you need to setup the environment variables for use correct IP of MySQL Database. Please, read here and here for more details.
Build the Docker image:
Run the container. For example, if you want to run the container in a new terminal, you can do:
The default port of api is 5000. After running the container, you can access the api by typing:
Follow the steps properly (manual or Docker) and you are good to go.
Contributing
Go to Contributing.md
DEMO
VIDEO - Watch the video
Video Last Updated on 7th March, 2022
IMAGES