MERN Boilerplate
This is full stack boilerplate with React, Redux, Express, Mongoose and Passport. Skip the tedious part and get straight to developing your app.
Demo
Live demo is available here:
Deployment with Docker (2023. update)
Since Heroku is no longer free I made Docker production deployment that you can use on any Linux VPS.
original mern-docker-prod repository with Docker code and instructions that you can reuse to deploy your own Mern apps
Traefik part of the deployment traefik-proxy and traefik-proxy/apps/mern-boilerplate
Features
Server
User and Message models with 1:N relation
Full CRUD REST API operations for both Message and User models
Passport authentication with local email/password, Facebook and Google OAuth strategies and JWT protected APIs
User and Admin roles
NodeJS server with Babel for new JS syntax unified with React client
async/await syntax across whole app
Joi server side validation of user's input
Single .env file configuration
Image upload with Multer
Database seed
Client
React client with functional components and Hooks
Redux state management with Thunk for async actions
CSS agnostic, so you don't waste your time replacing my CSS framework with yours
Home, Users, Profile, Admin, Notfound, Login and Register pages
Protected routes with Higher order components
Different views for unauthenticated, authenticated and admin user
Edit/Delete forms for Message and User with Formik and Yup validation
Admin has privileges to edit and delete other users and their messages
Layout component, so you can have pages without Navbar
Loading states with Loader component
Single config file within /constants folder
Installation
Read on on how to set up this for development. Clone the repo.
Server
.env file
Rename .env.example to .env and fill in database connection strings, Google and Facebook tokens, JWT secret and your client and server production URLs.
Generate certificates
Facebook OAuth requires that your server runs on https in development as well, so you need to generate certificates. Go to /server/security folder and run this.
Install dependencies
Run the server
You are good to go, server will be available on
Client
Just install the dependencies and run the dev server. App will load on
That's it as far for development setup. For production check the Deployment on Heroku section.
Screenshots
Deployment on Heroku
Push to Heroku
This project is already all set up for deployment on Heroku, you just need to create Heroku application add heroku remote to this repo and push it to heroku origin.
Database setup
But before that you need MongoDB database, so go to MongoDB Atlas, create cluster, whitelist all IPs and get database URL. Set that URL in .env file as MONGOURIPROD.
If you don't insert environment variables in Heroku manually via web interface or console you'll need to remove .env file from server/.gitignore and push it to Heroku. Never push .env file to development repo though.
In the following section you can read detailed instructions about Heroku deployment process.
Server setup
Development
Server uses Babel so that we can use the same newer JavaScript syntax like the one used on the Client. In development we are passing server/src/index.js file to babel-node executable along with nodemon daemon. We run that with npm run server script.
Production
That is fine for development, we compile the source on every run but for production we want to avoid that and to compile and build code once to JavaScript version which Node.JS can execute. So we take all the code from /server/src folder compile it and put the output into /server/build destination folder. -d is short for destination, and -s flag is for sourcemaps for debugging. We make that into build-babel script.
We also need to delete and make build folder on every deployment, so we do that with this simple script.
Now we have everything to build our server code. We do that by calling 2 last scripts.
Now we just need to call build script and run compiled file with node. Make sure Babel is in the production dependencies in the server/package.json or you'll get "babel is not defined" error on Heroku.
Running server on Heroku
Our server is now all set up, all we need is to call start-prod script. Heroku infers runtime he needs to run the application by the type of dependencies file in the root folder, so for Node.JS we need another package.json. Heroku will call start script after building phase so we just need to pass our start-prod script to spin up the server with the --prefix server where server is folder in which package.json with that script is located.
Installing dependencies
Before all this happens Heroku needs to install the dependencies for both server and client, heroku-postbuild script is meant for that. NPMCONFIGPRODUCTION=false variable is there to disable production environment while dependencies are being installed. Again --prefix flag is specifying the folder of the script being run. In this script we build our React client as well.
Client Setup
Before you push to production you'll need to set your URLs in client/constants. That's it.
References
Brad Traversy Dev connector 2.0
Brad Traversy Learn The MERN Stack Youtube playlist
Thinkster react-redux-realworld-example-app
Thinkster
node-express-realworld-example-app
Quinston Pimenta Deploy React with Node (Express, configured for ES6, Babel) to Heroku (without babel-node)
Kim Nguyen How to Deploy ES6 Node.js & Express back-end to Heroku
Licence
MIT