Remult
Full-stack CRUD, simplified, with SSOT TypeScript entities
Tutorials |
Quickstart |
Example Apps
What is Remult?
Remult uses TypeScript entities as a single source of truth for: ✅ CRUD + Realtime API, ✅ frontend type-safe API client, and
✅ backend ORM.
:zap: Zero-boilerplate CRUD + Realtime API with paging, sorting, and filtering
:okhand: Fullstack type-safety for API queries, mutations and RPC, without code generation
:sparkles: Input validation, defined once, runs both on the backend and on the frontend for best UX
:lock: Fine-grained code-based API authorization
:relieved: Incrementally adoptable
Remult supports all major databases, including: PostgreSQL, MySQL, SQLite, MongoDB, MSSQL and Oracle.
Remult is frontend and backend framework agnostic and comes with adapters for Express, Fastify, Next.js, Nuxt, SvelteKit, SolidStart, Nest, Koa, Hapi and Hono.
Want to experience Remult firsthand? Try our interactive online tutorial.
Remult promotes a consistent query syntax for both frontend and Backend code:
Usage
Define schema in code
👉 Don't like decorators? we have full support for Working without decorators
Add backend API with a single line of code
Example:
Remult adds route handlers for a fully functional REST API and realtime live-query endpoints, optionally including an Open API spec and a GraphQL endpoint
Fetch data with type-safe frontend code
:mega: Realtime Live Queries
:ballotboxwithcheck: Data validation and constraints - defined once
Enforced in frontend:
Enforced in backend:
:lock: Secure the API with fine-grained authorization
:rocket: Relations
Automatic admin UI
Learn more here.
What about complex CRUD?
While simple CRUD shouldn’t require any backend coding, using Remult means
having the ability to handle any complex scenario by controlling the backend in
numerous ways:
Backend computed (read-only) fields - from simple
expressions to
complex data lookups or even direct db access (SQL)
Custom side-effects with
entity lifecycle hooks
(before/after saving/deleting)
Backend only updatable fields (e.g. “last updated at”)
Relations
Roll-your-own type-safe endpoints with
Backend Methods
Roll-your-own low-level endpoints (Express, Fastify, koa, others…)
Installation
The remult package is one and the same for both the frontend bundle and the
backend. Install it once for a monolith project or per-repo in a monorepo.
Tutorials
The best way to learn Remult is by following a tutorial of a simple Todo web app
with a Node.js Express backend.
Tutorial with React
Tutorial with Angular
Tutorial with Vue
Tutorial with Next.js
Tutorial with Sveltekit
Tutorial with SolidStart
Demo
Watch code demo on YouTube here (14 mins)
Documentation
The documentation covers the main features of Remult.
However, it is still a work-in-progress.
Example Apps
Fullstack TodoMVC example with React and Express.
(Source code |
CodeSandbox)
CRM demo with a React +
MUI front-end and Postgres database.
Status
Remult is production-ready and, in fact, used in production apps since 2018.
However, we’re keeping the major version at zero so we can use community
feedback to finalize the v1 API.
Motivation
Full-stack web development is (still) too complicated. Simple CRUD, a common
requirement of any business application, should be simple to build, maintain,
and extend when the need arises.
Remult abstracts away repetitive, boilerplate, error-prone, and poorly designed
code on the one hand, and enables total flexibility and control on the other.
Remult helps building fullstack apps using only TypeScript code you can easily
follow and safely refactor, and fits nicely into any existing or new project
by being minimalistic and completely unopinionated regarding the developer’s
choice of other frameworks and tools.
Other frameworks tend to fall into either too much abstraction (no-code,
low-code, BaaS) or partial abstraction (MVC frameworks, GraphQL, ORMs, API
generators, code generators), and tend to be opinionated regarding the
development tool-chain, deployment environment, configuration/conventions or
DSL. Remult attempts to strike a better balance.
Contributing
Contributions are welcome. See CONTRIBUTING.md.
:speechballoon: Any feedback or suggestions? Start a
discussion.
:muscle: Want to help out? Look for "help wanted" labeled
issues.
:star: Give this repo a star.
License
Remult is MIT Licensed.