fullstack-apollo-express-postgresql-boilerplate
A full-fledged Apollo Server with Apollo Client starter project with React and Express. Read more about it in this tutorial to build it yourself.
Family of universal fullstack repositories:
Server Applications:
Node.js with Express + MongoDB
Node.js with Express + PostgreSQL
Client Applications:
React Client
React Native Client
Features of Client + Server
React (create-react-app) with Apollo Client
Queries, Mutations, Subscriptions
Node.js with Express and Apollo Server
cursor-based Pagination
PostgreSQL Database with Sequelize
entities: users, messages
Authentication
powered by JWT and local storage
Sign Up, Sign In, Sign Out
Authorization
protected endpoint (e.g. verify valid session)
protected resolvers (e.g. e.g. session-based, role-based)
protected routes (e.g. session-based, role-based)
performance optimizations
example of using Facebook's dataloader
E2E testing
Installation
git clone :the-road-to-graphql/fullstack-apollo-express-postgresql-boilerplate.git
cd fullstack-apollo-express-postgresql-boilerplate
touch .env
npm install
fill out .env file (see below)
start PostgreSQL database
npm start
visit for GraphQL playground
.env file
Since this boilerplate project is using PostgreSQL, you have to install it for your machine and get a database up and running. You find everything for the set up over here: Setup PostgreSQL with Sequelize in Express Tutorial. After you have created a database and a database user, you can fill out the environment variables in the server/.env file.
The SECRET is just a random string for your authentication. Keep all these information secure by adding the .env file to your .gitignore file. No third-party should have access to this information.
Testing
adjust test:run-server npm script with TESTDATABASE environment variable in package.json to match your testing database name
to match it from package.json: createdb mytestdatabase with psql
one terminal: npm run test:run-server
second terminal: npm run test:execute-test
Want to learn more about React + GraphQL + Apollo?
Don't miss upcoming Tutorials and Courses
Check out current React Courses