🔗 LittleLink-Server
LittleLink is a lightweight DIY alternative to services like Linktree
and many.link.
Inspired by littlelink.
👇 What is LittleLink-Server?
LittleLink-Server is based on the great work from littlelink, a lightweight DIY alternative to services like Linktree and many.link. LittleLink and LittleLink-Server is built using Skeleton, a dead simple, responsive boilerplate—we just stripped out some additional code you wouldn't need and added in branded styles for popular services. 😊
It takes the same simple approach to a link page and hosts it within a NodeJS server with React Server Side Rendering, containerized for you to use. Now, customizing LittleLink with littlelink-server is as easy as passing in some environment variables. If you need help configuring this, please see this video at explains everything and a live example at links.technotim.com.
⭐ Features
Over 60+ brand buttons with more able to be requested
Customisable Themes
Analytics Support
Health Check Support
A fully customisable docker-compose
🚀 Getting Started
Check the docker-compose.yml file for all supported buttons and configuration!
The example below will generate a site exactly like
Using Docker-Compose
Using Docker
Using Kubernetes
Unofficial helm chart provided by k8s-at-home
Or use a values.yaml files
helm install littlelink-server k8s-at-home/littlelink-server -f values.yaml
🔧 Configuration
Analytics Support
Google Analytics
See Getting Started with Analytics. After getting your GA Tracking Id, use your tracking Id as environment variable like GATRACKINGID=G-XXXXXXXXXX (See the example below)
All buttons clicked will be tracked automatically if GATRACKINGID exists.
Sample event for YouTube button.
Umami
See Adding a website & Collecting data page to add and generate your tracking code.
Generated tracking code should look like:
Use data-website-id as environment variable UMAMIWEBSITEID. Take the initial root host of src as UMAMIAPPURL, and the name of the script (i.e. umami.js or script.js) as UMAMISCRIPTNAME.
Sample event for YouTube button.
Matomo
See Installing Matomo fo how to configure analytics and how to find your site id
Use MATOMOURL for your URL and MATOMOSITEID for your site id
Sample event for YouTube button.
Health Check
A health check endpoint exists on /healthcheck. If healthy, it will return with a 200 and the following response:
To skip express from logging these calls, add the environment variable: